Add Azure IoT Hub integration docs (#1590)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 08.Server-integration/04.Azure-IoT-Hub/docs.md

---
title: Azure IoT Hub integration
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

Mender supports preparing devices to use Azure IoT Hub. Assuming you already have Mender in place on the device, it is automatically created in Azure IoT Hub and applications running on the device get access to the Azure IoT connection string. With Mender in place, you can simply start writing your Azure IoT application by reading the connection string from a well-defined place in the device. This integration is available in all Mender plans, as well as Mender Open Source.

![simple flow](flow_simplified.png)

!!! It is currently possible to have one Azure IoT Hub integration configured per Mender Organization (aka. tenant).

> !!! [Mender Configure](../../09.Add-ons/10.Configure/docs.md) is required to properly integrate devices with Azure IoT Hub.

Reviewer: "properly integrate devices with Azure IoT Hub" -> "distribute the Azure IoT connection string to the device".

Author: done!

!!! After you enable the integration, only newly accepted devices in Mender will be created in Azure IoT Hub. Existing devices (in both systems) are left unchanged.

## Prerequisites

### A board integrated with Mender

You need a physical board that has already been integrated with Mender. For example, you may use one of the reference boards BeagleBone Black, Raspberry Pi 3 or Raspberry Pi 4.

If you have not yet prepared a device visit one of the following:

- [Client installation](../../03.Client-installation/chapter.md)
- [System updates: Debian family](../../04.System-updates-Debian-family/chapter.md)
- [System updates: Yocto Project](../../05.System-updates-Yocto-Project/chapter.md)

### Azure IoT Hub

> An Azure account with Azure IoT Hub needs to be set up. More information [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/iot-hub/#overview). In order to integrate Mender with Azure IoT Hub you need to provide an [IoT Hub connection string](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/iotdev/understand-different-connection-strings-in-azure-iot-hub/#iothubconn).

Reviewer: "More information [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/iot-hub/#overview)"

->
"See the [Azure IoT Hub documentation](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/iot-hub/?target=_blank#overview) for more information.

NOTE: Please use ?target=_blank when referring to external sites (not docs.mender.io links)

Reviewer: This also applies to your second link here.

Author: done!

## Configuring Mender to integrate with Azure IoT Hub

In order to connect your devices to Azure IoT Hub, you need to enter connection string. Open the Mender UI and navigate to `Settings` -> `Integrations`:

![integrations](image_0.png)

Choose the Azure IoT Hub integration and enter your IoT Hub connection string:

> ![connection string](image_1.png)

Author: done!

You can find your connection string under the `Shared access policies` menu in your IoT Hub after selecting desired access policy:

> !!! Mender needs the `Shared access policy` with `Registry Read`, `Registry Write` and `Service Connect` permissions.

Reviewer: The `iothubowner` user has the required permissions, but you can also use a more limited account if desired. Mender needs the `Shared access policy` with `Registry Read`, `Registry Write` and `Service Connect` permissions.

Author: done!

![Shared access policies](image_2.png)

> ## Connecting devices to Azure IoT Hub

Reviewer: Mender provisions devices to the Azure IoT Hub

Author: Are you sure this sounds better?

Reviewer: No strong opinion, but "connecting devices to Azure IoT Hub" sounded what you would normally do with out Mender. Take your pick. :)

Author: I changed it to `Connect your devices to Azure IoT Hub automatically using Mender`, please let me know what do you think :smiley:

Go to the `Devices` tab in Mender and accept a device. After it gets authorized in Mender, it will also show up in your Azure IoT Hub:

> ![Accept device](image_3.png)

Reviewer: Suggest pointing out Device ID, sent you image update

Author: done, thanks!

> ![Azure devices](image_4.png)

Reviewer: Suggest pointing out Device ID, sent you image update

Author: done, thanks!

> 

Reviewer: Notice that the same Device ID used in Mender is provisioned to the Azure IoT Hub. This makes it easy to cross-reference your devices between Mender and Azure IoT Hub.

Author: done!

From now on, your device can send data to Azure IoT Hub!

> ## Device lifecycle in detail

Reviewer: Device lifecycle overview

Author: done!

Summing up, lifecycle of device being integrated with Azure IoT Hub can be described as below:

1. At first, the device gets accepted - various flows can be used to achieve this state. See [device authentication](../../02.Overview/13.Device-authentication/docs.md) for more information.

> 2. Mender provisions the device in Azure IoT Hub - as a result of this operation, Azure device connection string is stored in Mender.

Reviewer: "stored in Mender" -> "retrieved by the Mender server".

Author: done!

> 3. The Mender [Configure add-on](../../09.Add-ons/10.Configure/docs.md) sets the device connection string in file (`/var/lib/mender-configure/device-config.json`) on the device.

Reviewer: It is recommended to create a [Mender configuration script](../../add-ons/configure/device-integration) to reconfigure the Azure IoT application and restart it with its new connection string.

Reviewer 2: The idea, as @estenberg says, is to use configuration update modules to bootstrap the iot application. A practical example on Mender Hub would also be great to reference here.
```suggestion
3. The connection string is made available to the device by a configuration deployment. To bootstrap your Azure IoT application you need to create a [Mender configuration module](../../add-ons/configure/device-integration).
```

Author: As agreed during standup, I'll prepare an article after we finish working on renaming microservices and potentially preparing abstraction layer for cloud vendors we'll provide integrations with. Task: https://tracker.mender.io/browse/MEN-5337

---
title: Azure IoT Hub integration
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

!!!!! [Mender Configure](../../09.Add-ons/10.Configure/docs.md) is required to distribute the Azure IoT device connection strings to the devices.

> !!!!! It is currently possible to have one Azure IoT Hub integration configured per Mender Organization (aka. tenant).

Reviewer: Would move this below the description "Mender supports..."

> !!!!! After you enable the integration, only newly accepted devices in Mender will be created in Azure IoT Hub. Existing devices (in both systems) are left unchanged.

Reviewer: Would move this below the description "Mender supports..."

Author: done!

Mender supports preparing devices to use Azure IoT Hub. Assuming you already have Mender in place on the device, it is automatically created in Azure IoT Hub and applications running on the device get access to the Azure IoT connection string. With Mender in place, you can simply start writing your Azure IoT application by reading the connection string from a well-defined place in the device. This integration is available in all Mender plans, as well as Mender Open Source.

![simple flow](image_0.png)

## Prerequisites

> ### A board integrated with Mender

Reviewer: A Mender server and device

> You need a physical board that has already been integrated with Mender. For example, you may use one of the reference boards BeagleBone Black, Raspberry Pi 3 or Raspberry Pi 4.

Reviewer: Remove BeagleBone Black. It's not a reference, it used to be (only RPi is).

Reviewer: Maybe even generalize this. Just say you need a Mender server set up and a device running the Mender client. Then link to get started.

Author: done!

If you have not yet prepared a device visit one of the following:

> - [Client installation](../../03.Client-installation/chapter.md)

Reviewer: Link to Get started instead of these 3.

visit [Get started]()...

---
title: Azure IoT Hub integration
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

> Mender supports preparing devices to use Azure IoT Hub. Assuming you already have Mender in place on the device, it is automatically created in Azure IoT Hub and applications running on the device get access to the Azure IoT connection string. With Mender in place, you can simply start writing your Azure IoT application by reading the connection string from a well-defined place in the device. Integration is available both in open-source and all Enterprise plans.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> !!! Currently it's possible to have one cloud provider connection per tenant.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

!!! [Mender Configure](../../09.Add-ons/10.Configure/docs.md) is required to properly integrate devices with Azure IoT Hub.

> !!! Currently only new devices can integrate with Azure IoT Hub.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

## Prerequisites

### A board integrated with Mender

You need a physical board that has already been integrated with Mender. For example, you may use one of the reference boards BeagleBone Black, Raspberry Pi 3 or Raspberry Pi 4.

If you have not yet prepared a device visit one of the following:

- [Client installation](../../03.Client-installation/chapter.md)
- [System updates: Debian family](../../04.System-updates-Debian-family/chapter.md)
- [System updates: Yocto Project](../../05.System-updates-Yocto-Project/chapter.md)

### Azure IoT Hub

> Azure account with Azure IoT Hub needs to be set up. More information [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/iot-hub/#overview). In order to integrate Mender with Azure IoT Hub you need to provide [IoT Hub connection string](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/iotdev/understand-different-connection-strings-in-azure-iot-hub/#iothubconn).

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> ## Connecting devices to Azure IoT Hub

Reviewer: This is more about setting up the system, would adjust the header accordingly.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> In order to connect your devices to Azure IoT Hub, you need to enter connection string. This can be set up in `Settings` - `Integrations`:

Reviewer: Open the Mender UI and navigate to `Settings` -> `Integrations`.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

![integrations](image_0.png)

> After choosing Azure IoT Hub integration, enter connection string:

Reviewer: Choose the Azure IoT Hub integration and enter your IoT Hub connection string:

Author: Fixed, thanks!

![connection string](image_1.png)

> Connection string can be taken from `Shared access policies` menu in your IoT Hub after selecting desired access policy:

Reviewer: You can find your connection string under the `Shared access policies` menu in your IoT Hub after selecting desired access policy:

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> !!! Mender needs Shared access policy with `Registry Read`, `Registry Write` and `Service Connect` permissions

Reviewer: policy with *the* ...
Add punctuation to end of sentence.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

![Shared access policies](image_2.png)

> Next, go to `Devices` menu and accept your device - after it gets authorized in Mender, it will also show up in Azure IoT Hub:

Reviewer: Go to the `Devices` tab in Mender and *accept* a device. After it gets authorized in Mender, it will also show up in your Azure IoT Hub:

Author: Fixed, thanks!

![Accept device](image_3.png)

![Azure devices](image_4.png)

From now on, your device can send data to Azure IoT Hub!

> ## Disabling device in Azure IoT Hub

Reviewer: Would collect these two under common heading, e.g. "Mender manages device life-cycle".
If the device is rejected in Mender, Mender will Disable it in your Azure IoT Hub. ...

Reviewer: Also, you don't mention Mender Configuer here and how it will work end-to end. I would rethink the structure here a bit. E.g. use the diagram, explain the workflow at a high level first, then explain each in detail.

Mender sets device's status to `Disabled` in Azure IoT Hub when it gets `rejected`.

## Deleting device in Azure IoT Hub

Mender removes device from Azure IoT Hub when it gets `decommissioned`.

> ## Device lifecycle

Reviewer: This would fit better at the top I think.
Also we have a diagram already that you could use instead / in addition: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n9HVqE00kPcM8EYLvT74Dryo8eTzNpRh/view

Summing up, lifecycle of device being integrated with Azure IoT Hub can be described as below:

> 1. At first, device gets accepted - various flows can be used to achieve this state. More about device authentication [here](../../02.Overview/13.Device-authentication/docs.md)

Reviewer: the device

Reviewer: instead of "here" say See [device authentication]() for more information.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> 2. Mender provisions device in Azure IoT Hub - as a result of this operation, Azure device connection string is stored in Mender.

Reviewer: provisions the device

> 3. Next step is Mender Configure add-on, which sends device connection string to file (`/var/lib/mender-configure/device-config.json`) on the device.

Reviewer: The Mender Configure add-on sets the device connection string in `....`

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> 4. From now on, device can send or get any data to/from Azure IoT Hub.

Reviewer: the device.

Perhaps say device applications can read the connection string from the file and communicate with Azure IoT Hub.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> 5. If device gets rejected in Mender, it's automatically set to `Disabled` state in Azure IoT Hub.

Reviewer: 'it's" -> "it is" (we usually do not use abbreviations)

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> 6. If device gets decommissioned, it's automatically `deleted` from Azure IoT Hub.

Reviewer: same here "it is"
Deleted (capitalize)

Author: Fixed, thanks!
